like not like any chat open and just
kind of like go through that go
sometimes you know I don't want to get
like affected by what people think or
say or sometimes like I feel like when
I'm shooting I get this like a loop or
like you zone right gotta get into this
flow of things yeah I don't like not
have that right now no sense just so I
you you want to be in a flow no I don't
like no I mean like um okay so I don't
be like um affected by like the mood or
like oh um what's chat saying it's like
I mean is that made me like act
different like you know just chill it
was chat bro I never looked exactly
exactly exactly so as I was saying that
usually when I'm talking to someone I
mean they require a hundred percent of
my attention or I try to give them a
hundred percent of my attention and and
yeah I mean I couldn't do what I do if I
was having a conversation with like ten
thousand people I'm having conversation
with one person there just happen to be
like 10,000 people watching or more it's
good in your case so yeah I mean yeah I
get it
yeah so tell me what what what do you
want to talk about today so you have
chat clothes or chat is open on those go
okay so we just a noun you should we
turn off the stream and troll them and
talk for an hour in private
remind you like it I'm so glad we did
this
good got then yeah um can't control us
but we control them too yeah yeah yeah
we did way harder to like I remember
soda one time however he just turned a
stream on it and it was like the opening
screen like this starting soon screening
and he just never went on that it was
there for like I don't know like a
couple hours and it just turned it off
yeah so what do you want I think that
sounds great by the way and what am i
calling you bro Felix
okay Felix Felix um wait what does feel
is that a name oh no I thought you said
feel I've misheard you
on the off Felix or ecstasy either okay
there's good Felix okay yeah so Felix
what what do you want I'm completely in
favor of what you said earlier about
just like having a conversation between
two people
oh yeah exactly um well I want to have
like it's an approach with it would
topics more like uh you know she's like
open or just like a like talk if you
like safe like some hoop leaves it
somewheres go through it you know
absolutely man it's awesome I mean
there's like a couple things that that I
have that I had it that I like I've seen
on the show some but I don't want like
to redo things that you already like
talked about too much you know make it
like I don't know the intent yeah you
mean you don't want to talk about
something that someone else has talked
about um not not like directly like that
just like I've listened some of the
advice throughout that topic is that
make sense sure but so I I don't think
we can redo anything by the way cuz
you're a different person
okay right so true so I think that if
I've learned one thing like so you know
let's say I work with a hundred people
with depression it's not a script right
each person's unique each person's
challenge even though there's something
that we share there's like something
that's unique and different about who we
are as people and that's why like you
can't watch a conversation with another
human being and then that doesn't apply
a hundred percent to you so I get what
you're saying but I would also say like
don't how can i I almost get a sense of
service in the way that you're talking
right now it's almost like saying like
we shouldn't like cuz you've already
talked about this before so like we we
don't need to talk about it with me but
I'm saying okay if that's important to
you we should absolutely talk about it
and who they all cares about what we've
said in the past with other people
mmm-hmm so what you want to talk about
Felix um well I had thinking knows like
over the
possible months or whatever like stuff
like um just like generic like issues
that I think most simmers like have not
like issues but you know like a mental
religious yeah you know stuff like
impostor syndrome stuff like
self-sabotage or whatever okay which is
I I think sometimes like we'll probably
one of my um not favorite but like
what's something that I nice see more
often than myself so right tell me in
what ways do you sabotage yourself you
know the the analogy always give is kind
of like when you play a game and you get
a certain rank right that's like really
good and you're really proud of yourself
huh a lot of times even if I have it I'm
happy with it I'll feel like if I play a
game or two and I'm not good and I'm
doing good
I'll feel like I want to lose that rank
right just so I could get it back just
like you feel like I deserve it does it
make sense yeah I go ahead no go ahead I
feel like I do that
a lot of things almost everything I did
that that exact same thing or I'll
purposely like destroy a part of
something just like it again it so I
could feel like I deserve it
yeah I think that makes a lot of sense
so it's almost as if you it's almost as
if you need to gain that rank to show
yourself that you deserve to be there
yeah and and getting there once isn't
enough that's never enough so let's
think about that why do you think that
is
sounds tiring by the way to constantly
need to prove your worth um yeah it's
super tiny yeah I setup where you get
two different internets right and you
get it installed to where like they're
both going in and if one fails the other
one kicks in Oh interesting I've never
I've never heard of that yeah see if I
could there we go
all right sorry about that so yeah
actually you know what in terms of in
terms of mindset with you I think
shimmers I've talked to like crows most
rumors about this and I have not found
one person who disagrees that dropped
frames lag server problems internet
problems loss trimmings one the most
discouraging thing ever I don't think
anything comes close to that yeah so it
was interesting you know as the internet
went on again because this happened on
Friday when we were talking to polka
main and and like it was so interesting
to feel my reactions cuz at first I was
like super super angry because that's
like what what the fudge yeah you know
cuz I so after Friday I like made sure
everything is okay like tested our
router like everything's fine we called
our ISP and they were actually doing
maintenance in the middle of the
afternoon on Friday which is why
everyone out and so then I was like okay
fine so it looks like we're done
like no more maintenance then sure
enough and I can you know I can play
games for like eight hours and our
internet doesn't go out at all it's like
yeah exactly and and no problem if I'm
just hanging out with my friends but
when you're you know streaming with one
of the biggest people on Twitch then
suddenly your internet is like get
[ __ ] kid yeah that's so annoying about
it and so I was thinking a little bit
about okay I can't really do a whole lot
about it so let's just I decided to get
myself some water and and yeah you had
my kid
egg okay and you have a kid or like a
lot of them
I have something between a and a lot
I've got two oh yes I've like think
about this I don't know why but yeah
okay but I can I see your um your face
yeah you can't see my face on discord no
[ __ ] this is happening again okay hold
on come on we fixed this hold on hold on
how do we do this oh yeah yeah hit hit
hit the gridview oh wait yeah you're
right wait I can see your face okay okay
not always my fault okay yeah do you
like to like see yourself while you're
showing it because do I sort of person
yeah
do you have any way on your screen that
you can see yourself while you're
streaming you I think your antenna I
used to not have that now I do okay so
no so now they changed my layout to
where I can see my face on the screen
why do you do you like that what do you
ask
I don't like it I don't like it what do
you tell if I get about it
it feels disingenuous to what I want to
do why what to do I want to chill be
like more like organic stuff and I feel
like sometimes see myself what kind of
reminds me oh man this is like this is
camera this is film this is whatever I
feel like it's a it's a constant like it
bring back all the time kind of realism
back like a like a fishing rod you know
yeah so if I'm if I'm hearing you what
I'd say is that what you're really going
for is like immersion for almost like a
flow state where you're a hundred
percent with what you're doing yeah and
and when you see yourself on camera it's
sort of like reminds you that Felix like
this is like we're streaming there are
people watching there's all this other
thing and then you're not you're not
present at the task that you're doing
yeah okay that sounds that sounds bad
I do a lot of small things in there and
like my my I did my setup in my daily
life I feel like to maintain that state
you know sometimes I like I try too hard
to keep that state I still do it I don't
know why but I still do it what when you
say that state you mean the flow state
like the state of being present just
like stuff with like the way I arrange
my things or the way that I go that
going go on with my day like I have
problems doing stuff before stream or
doing stuff that no that was good doing
stuff before stream is really hard I
like to like tunnel vision and then wake
up and have one mindset one need one
want and I just go into that and I just
follow it along
does that make sense and whenever I do
something before stream I feel like I'm
I'm somewhere and then I go to what at
what to what I want to do right and
there's a big like I'm just
in an odd state and I can always it
always happens you know yeah it's very
principled and I always get upset at
that I think it's a bad effect when you
say you get upset you get upset by not
being as clear-headed as if you start
right away yeah I'm like I feel
disconnected and that's not what I want
to put out stuff what I want to be and I
feel like uh I don't know it as you
don't feel like I'm you know worth my
own stage or whatever does that make
sense
no like yes it's like yeah there are two
things there okay so Felix you let me
know which one you want to talk about
one is cognitively in neuro
scientifically why it is easier to
produce better work when you start first
thing after you wake up so this is a
concept that's been understood by Yogi's
in India for thousands of years and
there's a Sun script phrase Brahma
mirtha which sort of encapsulates the
idea of like starting your day off right
we can talk about that the second thing
and that's gonna be like a little bit
more like teaching the second thing is
actually a little bit more subtle and I
think maybe a little bit more personal
and helpful which is somewhere along the
way so you said I don't deserve my own
stage right and and this kind of reminds
me of what you said earlier about like
if you get to a certain rank and then
you'd play one or two bad games you feel
like you don't deserve that rank so you
want to get knocked down so you can
reaffirm yourself that you deserve to be
where you are and then you want to climb
up again because when you climb up then
like no you don't take anything for
granted
right like you started at the bottom and
then you climbed up so you're like okay
yeah Felix deserves this because I just
rose through the ranks yeah and then
like coasting is is like well maybe I
don't really deserve to be here but if
you just rise then you're like
absolutely because if I didn't deserve
to be here then I wouldn't have been
able to climb if I really deserve to be
one rank lower than I wouldn't have just
won ten games in a row right yeah so the
subtle thing there yeah go ahead
no you're good the subtle thing there
that like really blows my
mine felix is like where do you like so
if we think about it your sense of
intrinsic value is not there you need to
climb ranks to assure yourself that you
deserve something so why on earth don't
you have an intrinsic sense of like what
you deserve and I don't know that
necessarily that you need to even answer
that or that's the second topic right
like yeah because if we think about it
you know if I move through the world and
I walk down the street there's a sense
of value that I have that comes from
within and there's a sense of value that
comes from outside and what I'm noticing
in you when you save phrases like
imposter syndrome or or you you say
things like I don't deserve the stage or
you say things like self-sabotage that
in my mind tells me that your sense of
value internally got like kind of
tampered with at some point okay and we
can try to figure out why because like
all those things are the same does that
make sense yeah I think they interact
with each other I feel like yeah so so
and that just has to get come down to
like why don't you think you have value
as a person like why don't you think you
deserve what you have interesting you
know where does that where does that
come from because I I don't think people
are born that way I think people are
born with generally a sense of
entitlement right but they deserve what
yeah and they're kids and they're kind
of narcissistic and then somewhere along
the ways things happen to us and then we
start to like lose value and who we are
as people okay well I would guess that
um that I mean it it has to be somewhere
cuz I feel I feel like that sense as
like almost develops or something into
something that is more than just like
like simple like that like I said
earlier it like almost like a
relationship
what do that like Otto
need it now almost like a almost like I
want it almost like I emulated sometimes
it's almost like a something I'm
familiar with yeah Gramps so I can't
tell you a story about a patient of mine
sure so I had a patient who had been in
in three abusive relationships in a row
yep and and what what she needed from
her her current partner was just like
and so the reason so she had had the
three abusive relationships and then had
dated a couple of people and essentially
kind of drove them away and the reason
she kind of drove them away and so she
blamed herself for this which is sort of
fair is that like you know the
relationships weren't abusive and it was
kind of confusing to her and so she kind
of needed like constant reassurance that
like they weren't gonna leave her and
then like the more she needed
reassurance like the more kind of clingy
she became and the more that her
prospective boyfriends couldn't handle
it and so they ended up like the
relationship kind of fell apart and then
what happened like it's kind of subtle
right so like if I'm let's say that I
need reassurance from you and then I ask
you for that reassurance and then you
give it and the next day I ask and you
give it and the next day that I ask and
you give it and then eventually you kind
of get fed up and you leave what do you
think happens to the next person I date
how does that relationship look okay I
think I understand okay this is I was
listening it I was paying too much
attention to like the details or I I
felt a big picture make sense yeah sure
there's a victory of the story and lost
it because I understand the specifics
yep I see that okay so if I have a
relationship where I need a lot of
reassurance from someone oh can I Drive
it uh-huh
and then you stop getting it in the next
one or whatever well no so it's not even
that I stopped getting it what do you
think happens in the next one so like my
need for your love once you leave me
what happens to how much love I need
um no idea actually tell me okay so so
what happened with her is that she kind
of felt like so that person left right
and so the second relationship it's even
worse because now someone has abandoned
her again and so she needs more and more
reassurance and then she drives the
second person away and then two people
leave and then she's like oh my god I
need more and more reassurance
she loses value in herself with each
relationship and she needs more and more
validation from each person and it's a
vicious cycle because she can never get
enough validation my sense does that
make sense and so so but the reason that
she can never get enough validation is
because she doesn't feel good about
herself she doesn't feel like she's
unlovable or she feels like she's on
muffled she doesn't feel like she is
lovable and therefore she needs more
validation from alcohol and it's kind of
like a vicious cycle because the more
validation she gets she doesn't develop
confidence in herself okay so her like
self reward isn't enough that she needs
more from others that becomes unusable
like it became and give her it's that
it's exactly so she becomes dependent on
validation from other people to the
point where that validation is almost
unattainable because it's too much from
a normal relationship yep okay
sound familiar
yes how so yeah
I stood I usually did it I used to do
this thing
I play overwatch right and I would care
lot about just the game and how what I
would do
how loud perform right so I want you to
can I just jump in and pause sorry if
I'm derailing you but I don't love what
you said
I used to Carol I think that's gonna be
the answer so please continue okay I'll
tell a lot about the actual gameplay and
how good I was I would perform at any
given time and if I if I felt like I was
playing like really bad and I was doing
really bad and then I noticed I had a
lot of viewers it made me like upset
maybe upset that people would tune in
and watch such trash gameplay so I would
like shave off viewers on purpose like
it happened very often what I do things
to lose viewers so that I'd be like I
lost something I need to get this back
I'm gonna play well and then when they
cut one of the viewers come back or when
it arises again I feel like I deserve it
you know I deserve their their eyes and
her presence does look good
I worked there you know I didn't just so
you know so Felix why do you have to
shave off viewers this is important why
do you settle that's like this is real
sabotage why do you have to get rid of
them um what how do you feel if they
stayed and you play like [ __ ]
well I think I'm most the time yeah
right how does that feel to you to waste
other people's time it feels really
better and how does it feel when they
leave um
I think you'll feel good I'm gonna do it
it feels weird but somewhat good yep but
I give me a bit any gives me a goal yeah
so that's weird right look let's just
look at that for a second mm-hmm okay
let's look at that okay so when you play
bad and people stick around look why do
you think they stick around because you
have to push them out the door right you
have to actively try to get them to like
leave why do they stick around I mean
the people that sit around I mean for
for game play I would that would think
that they would stay because of how good
they think I am or how better the thing
I can do no no no they stay because they
they like you they value you okay okay
that's good
but when I when I give up performance
and gameplay that I don't like I
understand you don't like that okay
right so you think your value is
determined by your gameplay so yeah but
well what I'm telling I mean they're got
they have to be people I mean I don't
really know but there have to be people
who are better at overwatch than you are
right yeah yeah how do they watch you
like this is the thing that you don't
get and it's so [ __ ] confusing to you
that you have value outside of your
performance because the other guys
didn't scream fine whatever you can
devalue yourself however but do you get
that like they're sticky because they
like you okay and then and then what do
you do like that feels weird like if I
tell you if I tell you the things that
people like you because of you and not
because you're playing perfect every
match how does that make you feel must
feel a bit weird yeah what is that weird
let's understand that
don't think that I'm like interesting
enough for that like a level of
attention or something yep right so so
there's a disconnect between the way
that you value yourself as a person and
the way that twitch values you and this
is why twitch is beautiful because they
care about you as a person and that's
[ __ ] confusing to you and then what
you do is you have to repeat this drama
right or that's what you do is you push
them out the door
so like let me just let me think about
this I have to just write this out okay
mmm-hmm I'm gonna need a minute okay
now that I can listen and and and and
type this in time
probably not but let me hear what you
good no no go for it not no it was I was
adding some precision please um now this
guy like develop into something
different now that it's not exactly like
that anymore because I'm not really like
a competitor anymore so if I if I if I
play like trash it's like whatever
I don't really hold my own game look
they're like a high standard I only care
when I care or I only care but the
gameplay or my performance when I want
to care about it doesn't I sense okay if
I'm gonna stay well I'd what I don't
chaired that much if I played poorly oh
I can laugh it off and chitchat whatever
but I'm gonna stay where I Duke about
the gameplay and I want to show them
that I'm good to myself and others
and sure that that passion for getting
better if I don't do well then I then I
get like that right okay so and I think
you've learned two modes is what I'm
here yeah yeah okay so we'll we'll dig
into that further that's very helpful
thank you for sharing that
okay
okay so this is what I'm gonna say okay
so I there's this idea of intrinsic
value which is value about like who you
are and then there's extrinsic value
there's like the value that the world
shows you okay and and so somewhere
along the way you started like needing
that at like you felt like you don't
have intrinsic value like your sense of
like what you bring to the table is
dependent on your performance so this is
like like you know so I'm a doctor so
it's kind of like a doctor saying you
know whether I'm a good doctor or bad
doctor sort of depends on how many lives
I save or don't save which makes sense
right like if I'm I mean if you think
about it like a good doctor is someone
who saves a lot of lives but it's subtle
makes sense I'm not saying it's
illogical at all yes and I think there's
something weird that happens so when you
play so when you rise and you have a
certain level of value and then you play
poorly and twitch hat doesn't leave you
something funny happens you feel
uncomfortable yeah because they are not
sending you signals that are consistent
with the way that you you see yourself
you're like why are these why are these
[ __ ] people watching this show they
don't know they don't like this is
shitty like I'm performing terribly and
then what you have to do is you have to
create the reality that you feel which
is that you have to since they're like
so imagine you're on stage and there are
a lot of people watching and you're
bombing on stage right like you're doing
a terrible job but like no one's leaving
the theater and then what happens is
like put them yes put the big amount of
it I just blow in the mic yep no and and
then you take like it you go backstage
and you take a sack of like rotten fruit
and then you start throwing at people
yeah and then and then they start
leaving and then you feel good about
yourself because at least then they are
doing what they're supposed to do it's
exactly they're supposed to leave
because I'm shitty like why aren't they
leaving and then what you do then it's a
system you understand right because then
everyone has left and then there's one
dude in the theatre and then you're like
okay I can
I'm back and then Feliz arises from the
atrs you pick up the microphone you
start making jokes you start performing
again and then people start coming back
and you're like okay okay this is okay
this is okay because then you know what
you're what you're offering them is good
because they're coming in the door yeah
right yeah it's so like let's just think
about that like what do you think about
that man um I think it's a route to
failure but it's also a road success
absolutely so success and failure is one
thing okay we're not talking about
success in failure
I mean we can but what I'm talking about
is value I'm not talking about the
external world what I'm saying the weird
thing here is that when you're on stage
and you feel like you're bombing those
people want to stay yeah what do you
think about that it it's it's almost
discomforting it's it's odd it's very
discomforting what is that discomfort
what are you feeling like I said I think
I'm I'm telling them like I'm wasting
their time I feel like I've gotta sign
for something and they're not getting it
and you're sticking around to like the
potential Idid love it it will happen
yeah so sure I understand like because
because once again if you think they're
sticking around for the potential it
could happen but that's because you
believe they're sticking around because
of your performance right like it's like
you think that your value is based on
your performance which makes a lot of
sense because your life has been one
where I imagine I mean I think you're
pretty good at overwatch right yeah I'm
somebody yeah so if you're really good
at overwatch then you've been taught
that your success is correlated with
your performance
absolutely and but here's the thing
right like so here's the funny thing
about twitch is that there are a lot of
people here who are very very good and
and also like but I don't think that
that's that it's not just skill that
makes you good I mean successful on
twitch right there's something there's
something that streamers have which
connect with like this is the really
cool thing for as a psychiatrist I see
this it's like really fascinating if
there's something about you there's
something intrinsic about who you are
that like resonates with people in your
audience like they connect to you in
some way and that's not just because
you're good because they're all like
what if you just think about it you know
there are lots of good overwatch players
out there and maybe some of them scream
maybe some of them don't but there are a
lot of good people who stream but I
think the crazy thing here is somewhere
along the way you lost like you can't
fathom that someone would stay on the
stage if you're playing back I mean
someone would stay in the audience and
say in their seats if you're playing bad
on stage and I think that if you want to
stop self sabotaging like first of all
like because that's what you're doing
right when you when you start going and
you just you know you push them out and
then the problem is that it reinforces
even though it shouldn't because like it
reinforces this idea that your value
comes from bringing people in the door
but the real thing is if you really look
at it scientifically clearly that's not
where your value comes from because when
you play bad people don't leave but
you're just ignoring that data point
yeah because
I feel like in that mystery moment like
I care about being good I care about
being a competitor I care about
outperforming I care about like rolling
in my game like in that state of mind
like I don't it seems kind of like an
odd to say I don't care that much about
about twitch I don't care that much
about about your numbers I care about
being good yes so I think that makes
perfect sense but then the question is
there's a part of you so I think that's
exactly what you should care about right
like you should care about going on
stage and just giving the best of what
you can get the problem is that clearly
there is a part of your mind that cares
about more than that okay because if
that's all you cared about like let's
say you're on stage and you're juggling
and you drop a ball or something right
if all you care about is being better
you're just gonna pick up the ball and
keep juggling and whether people say or
people go you don't care because you're
focused on the juggling in fact I think
that there is something in you that
isn't it can because but that's not what
happens is you put it you shave off
yours so clearly there's a part of you
that cares about something else there's
a part of you that cares about being a
good juggler and there's a part of you
that cares about being seen is a good
juggler you don't want people to see
your failure that's that's accurate
that's good that's true that that was a
good mental development I didn't think
about anything about the way I always
see it like I said one sided thing yeah
right and that's not wrong because I
think you're you're a smart guy Felix
and you know that part of yourself but
if we look at your behavior there's
something else it's not that you're
wrong it's that it's incomplete and now
we get to the idea of like when did you
so now I want to thoughts questions can
I keep going no that's all good
so so so let's think about this when did
you start caring about because you're
not a guy who usually cares about
appearances right no really
so when can you remember a time where
that changed when did you start caring
like this could it could be like a small
and insignificant thing like maybe you
were growing up or something like that
oh well say never appearances I don't I
certainly I cared that much appearances
as in what because I was always like I
don't know go ahead
like was there a time that you remember
kind of feeling but not necessarily
physical appearances but that like you
kind of feel I mean this is such a
generic question everyone's gonna have
this but you know we're a time where you
kind of felt like super ashamed of the
way that you were perceived that you
felt like other people saw you as a
failure
mmm I look back at it I mean that's
gonna be true of everyone my question is
does anything jump to your mind so let
me put it this way so you know when when
you're when you're playing poorly and
people are sticking around and you feel
discomfort can you remember feeling that
discomfort in other scenarios outside of
streaming and gaming yeah there was this
where people should be leaving and they
should be calling you a piece of [ __ ]
but they didn't and I had this um had
this thing a long time ago where I had
to I would I was good at doing
trampoline right and the people at my
gym saw it and they wanted me to compete
right mm-hmm because I could do tricks
that other people couldn't so I started
training and refining the moves whatever
and then I had to compete in like some
some weird suit I didn't like any of it
I didn't like it the weirdness of
competing I like more the organic action
of it yeah so the present that I'm just
doing the trick for the sake of doing
the trick right not trying to win yeah
exactly yeah or make it perfect make it
look perfect whatever like that that
profession of the craft wasn't really oh
now it's a like ninja
line unbelievable where my my dad won on
like a date and I this competition or
whatever and you were like oh you know
we're gonna go watch you I was like dude
hell yeah man I'm gonna I'm gonna roll
you know cuz I'm better than all these
kids so I show up there and my moves are
like way better
I'm objectively if I just do whatever
I'm doing all the time my normal like
routine I I witness and I show up and I
bombed super harder but first Rick lens
I onto the side and then I jump sideways
like Ivan fall and then the second
attempt rolls around and it's even worse
right
and it's like everybody didn't say just
quiet right or like I stop with it's
over or like when she thought it's over
and it's just completely quiet anybody's
looking I'm like oh my god like I I
can't believe and my dad's on a date
right and I know he's out there and I'm
like this is unbelievable and that was
like really really bad and I ended up
quitting I'm done with competing like
I'm just never gonna fit again yeah that
was one of those moments
and what did your dad say um he always
like pushing to compete and everything
so a lot of times like you know in in in
other scenarios when I was young about
more than I would compete you'd be like
you know it's okay man good job good job
but that was so embarrassing that it was
kind of like it's a scam and like you
know there it is hold on a second
so when you perform badly and he says
good job that's people not leaving the
audience yeah great so when your dad
would say good job I want you to think
back and really remember how did you
feel when he said good job after you
know you did a bad job that's very
important for me what in what way when
you [ __ ] up and your dad said good job
then he saw the value in me trying it
matters that um you know I I fell once
and used to buy me and I'll have to fall
again so sense like almost like failing
twice else so you felt very supported by
him yeah by saying you did a good job
yeah did you feel ashamed um kinda like
on the fence you got like a in the gray
area where you like you failed once and
you feel like if if you have feedback
that you failed them then you failed
twice right so being like in on edge
about like how much of a failure this is
and then singing like support you and
they go good job can I make sure okay
you know it's not it's not that bad yeah
so I'm actually so that's interesting
that wasn't the answer I was expecting
from that story but well let's let me
just think for okay so the interesting
thing is that so it sounds like he was
supportive but it also
sounds like it doubles the pressure on
you yeah to win the second time yeah and
the interesting thing is that in a weird
way that actually sounds like winning
people back right so like let me just
let me just give you man this is so hard
to wrap my head around but I'm gonna try
to say it and it may not make sense so
so I'm just trying to think about okay
like when you it's like it's almost like
your dad giving you feedback and then
you winning after that is like you
getting your rank back after losing rank
yeah does that make sense
yeah or getting at least a part of it
that getting a part of it back right
it's like it's not that fail like you
have no problem dropping ranks what
bothers you is like dropping a rank and
not getting it back yeah but also losing
even more because of my projected rank
in his mind or something yeah that's
exactly what we need to talk about okay
right so where do you get the idea of
like what his projected like I mean I
hate to be so [ __ ] generic isn't it
you know use the psychiatry term but
like it is your dad proud of you um yeah
maybe I don't know in what times though
like when he what
proud proud I can tell when he when he
when he's proud to be nice I can also
tell right and I feel like like as you
kind of grow older I feel like yeah I
don't know I know how to put this I feel
like when I was young I needed him more
to be proud than today I thought now I
feel like more more like places where I
get like validation or that more like
why I get way did you do it can you tell
me what I just need a second I'm sorry
keep going
uh-oh I'm saying wrong or like uh
something over I don't know no I think
it's I think it's like exactly what
we're looking for it's just it's taken
aback by your answer right because what
I'm hearing from you is sometimes that's
what I'm hearing but there's well yeah
there's a lot there because I mean you
just said that you needed like the time
that you needed him to be proud of you
was when you were younger which is also
like that implies that he wasn't yeah
that's a powerful statement to make and
then the last thing is that like you
know generally speaking like as a parent
you know I mean a complicated answer to
the question is your dad proud of you is
sort of like a no right so that means
that on some level like it's complicated
in your mind it's still muddy it hasn't
been resolved and it's certainly not a
yes yeah and if we think a little bit
about it I mean I think that that's like
that's what we have to look into I mean
I feel like okay so let's just take a
step back and let me walk you through my
reasoning okay sure so we talked about
imposter syndrome we talked about
self-sabotage we talked about not living
up to expectations there's this idea
that like you let people down and make
their capacity to have intrinsic pride
and you is a person when they do that it
confuses the [ __ ] out and then what you
do is you create a
situation where they're proud of you but
their pride in you makes sense because
you are proud in yourself as well yeah
the problem arises when you feel ashamed
of yourself and they don't connect with
you there they're like not calling you a
piece of [ __ ] when they should be
calling you a piece of [ __ ] but instead
what they do is they send you love and
support and that's just really odd and
confusing to you so then you change the
system up to where you feel comfortable
with in it and the way that you feel
comfortable is by winning again like
what makes you uncomfortable is when
people care about you and you're losing
so you just like you're like okay I'm
gonna lose and then I'm gonna push them
out the door and then I'm gonna win and
then they've loved you all along the
only difference is that like sometimes
you love yourself and you create systems
where you can love yourself and then
their love for you which is constant
makes more [ __ ] sense does that make
sense
mm-hmm the next question becomes where
the [ __ ] does this come from
like what like why is it so damn
complicated right why can't you just be
loved by twitch at like that's kind of
the end of it yeah and and one that it's
so then like usually that's learned okay
so it's not like you're busted in some
way it's just like like we learned that
right and so then the issue is I mean
then the issue is like you know who in
your life taught you that you don't have
intrinsic value because kids start out
kind of like narcissistic and
egotistical and they think they're the
wonderful most wonderful people in the
world and then someone comes along and
sort of tells them that you know your
value too so like you were taught
something which is that your value as a
human being depends on performance yeah
yeah sure I was there on whatever set
yeah so who taught you that my dad
taught me that okay okay
right so there we go right so so I don't
even that was too easy
hold on oh yeah I mean I can pinpoint it
it's not like it's like a logical tell
me tell me tell me about that just tell
me about your dad
you know teaching you that lesson I mean
that was
you always want me to compete and I was
looking better I was Lilly's a very
competitive when I was young with my
with my brother or like I kinda knew
that fire and he wanted me to compete in
things that I didn't really care about
but since you know when we were young
like I don't really have like passions
for like a crazy amount of things so if
you if you wants that oh maybe it's cool
just do it right I did it it's not like
he forced me to I mean if he did that it
wouldn't be much of his defense for me
so let's let's think for a second if you
didn't like it and he wanted you to
compete why did you do it if he didn't
force you Oh we'll take your animals
learn like like skiing I used to do like
competitive skiing right and I didn't
even like it that much
III thought was gonna boring the way you
look like this and I thought was trash
but he cared about a lot and all his
friends like all had kids that that
would that would compete and I just kind
of had to show up and I would roll them
but I didn't really care about it why
did you do it
um because about that long meet you so
what were you looking for when you roll
them what would your dad how would you
look at you what would he say I mean
he'd be super proud when I would win and
I would I know I read a lot so to be
proud all the time right
and how did that make you feel I'm gonna
feel good like I'm when I on both ends
whatare to ends well
when add at the computing so I get like
the Val vision like oh you're ranked 1
or whatever and then did you care about
that yeah of course
ok even if I don't care about what it is
if I win it still matters ok sometimes
even more than what the action is itself
ok
right sure but like if that doesn't mean
nobody cares about like like Dora and
like the rank 1 speedrunner it's still
still feels good
sure I'm reg Warren okay and what was
winning on the other side he said
actually winning isn't I mean it and
then and then he he's proud of me then
III since he he's like a like a
competent mind sets like I know that he
cares that I win so I win and for myself
and I went for him too
that's gonna double win hmm both ends
yeah so what I'm hearing didn't did your
dad how would he treat you if you lost
um I guess it depends in what field but
I guess he still he still feel pretty
good I suppose yeah I I I think I think
you still gave me that validation even
when I didn't do well and did you know
he was do you think he was being genuine
at those times or you think he was
disappointed in you I think so
no I don't I don't I really feel like
you feel disappointed in my competing he
did or did not did not I don't think he
I don't think he ever felt like that and
have that it's not even like that like
it it just happened a lot like um like
competing like for myself but for him
also like if there's a bunch of times I
competed in like a skiing biking some
some other [ __ ] like like it would
happen by commonly you know how old were
you when you were competing and skiing
and biking I guess I'd be like 10 and
then maybe like 13 12 and in that
sounded like you didn't really like
those sports right no I didn't like him
that much especially especially biking
because my bike sucked it was just trash
right ask vegans kids dad like like
multi-thousand dollar bikes or whatever
and then that's like a long story but my
chain like I could be close to winning
and it might change elevate would would
fall off and had to physically get up
and and put it back on both on both ends
right and then go back again and I just
felt cheated all the time when I lost I
got at the end and I lost like did I
didn't have a chance he oh this this
[ __ ] sucks like [ __ ] these guys you
guys you guys are balls you're not even
good at the sport man she might I can't
give me a get a working by deal yeah
yeah and what happened at the end of the
race what did your dad say
crowd but I I would never like hold it
against them like they don't have a good
but I couldn't airily I mean like that
for me there was no other tool that I
could have like that was my tool and it
was trash you know just make it work
right yeah but he was proud anyway like
you'd still I give me that that that
validation of like and then he still it
is it a pretty good like I'm like I'm
glad you did it or something or
yeah champion is your dad proud of you
odd I don't throw the ball on stream but
yeah I don't think so yeah I don't think
so either
so the notion is why why do you feel
that way I think because he he has
things that he wants me to do well in
and and those things I don't do well or
never cared enough to do well and he is
sort of interested it doesn't shift just
guys stayed there how does that make you
feel
it makes me see that values and vision
elsewhere and find and build systems
where I get it there did you understand
that before this conversation not really
okay because that's absolutely the
answer very well said
okay right so like the fuel for your
system brilliant actually Felix could
that's the point that I'm moving towards
but that only is true if your dad is not
proud right and like that's where like
it's a hard thing like how do you feel
saying the words out loud that you're
afraid that your dad may not be proud of
you because I'm not sorry that he's not
proud of you for the record but like how
does it feel to say that I feels kind of
odd because I feel like um your parents
are kind of like a big part like you
know you got this big puzzle whatever
and you know it has like a thousand
pieces
or all the pieces that are like you're
your parents are like that like huge
ones in the middle that the ones that
you should care about the ones that are
that matter the most step right yeah but
like what makes you think you don't
matter about but what will you care do
you don't care about them or they don't
matter how are you getting that boy so I
said that again so you just said those
are the puzzle pieces that should matter
the most
yeah when you say should matter the most
it implies that they don't matter the
most so why do you think that your
parents don't matter well now they
matter but now the since I've build
those systems they're their input and
division is kind of irrelevant yes and
absolutely not so you're you're a
hundred percent correct that you have
created systems that will satisfy the
hunger that your parents left you with
mm-hmm but the goal here at least in my
mind is to like is to be free of those
systems because those systems [ __ ]
torture you okay right so like there's a
part there's a there's a there's a world
I want you to imagine Felix where you
play because you want to be the best not
because you need validation and I know
you know
but you play for the purpose of
schooling those noobs but yeah that's
enough but then what you have is this
whole other layer on it where like you
need the validation like it's not about
like cuz this goes back to like you know
you there's a moment where you want to
juggle just for the sake of juggling but
you do care so my whole point is that if
you want to live the life that you
really want to live which is to focus on
juggling in schooling news for the sake
of schooling news you've got to let go
of caring about other people and I know
that you do that like 90% of the time
and they're like 10 percent of the time
this weird [ __ ] happens in your mind
you're not even sure what's happening
and you're looking for validation and
then you use these phrases
you know you're discouraged impostor
syndrome self-sabotage like that's not a
life that you need to be living man it's
not a life I want you to live I want you
to all the life yeah go ahead
okay I want that life to like whatever
you're gonna say like I would probably
hundred say it would by omegan lessons
cuz your logical and but at the same
time sometimes I convinced myself of
like bad mental loops whatever and I'm
like hey man this thing is maybe not
like a like I had like a healthy mindset
but it just kind of works I'm just gonna
destroying that some way if I lose that
and it's trash been away so this is a
conch problem okay so like there's this
idea that caring and I mean like I feel
like I'm talking to Pokemon so like like
if you watch the video from her she she
actually calls it a whip
so she whips herself and she's a friend
like to be the best and and she
optimizes a lot of stuff in in her like
she's always an optimizer and she always
strives to be the best and then she's
also really confused cuz all you guys
are confused and then like I work with a
lot of executives and things like that
all those guys are confused too how can
you continue to perform if you abandon
your current system and the answer is
you absolutely can it it's and and that
becomes that that's a conversation about
another Sun script concept called
Vairagya which means detachment and and
we can kind of go down there but I want
to kind of
this thing with your dad if that's okay
now go ahead so the short answer is that
you can be successful by not caring
about other people or even success
success comes from you picking up the
balls that you're juggling and trying to
do better than you did the last time it
has nothing to do with whether you think
you're a good person
has nothing to do whether other people
think you're a good person and that is
what success depends upon so you can
abandon the rest of all of your
psychological [ __ ] in your systems and
whatever and as long as every time you
pick up a ball I mean every time you
drop a ball you pick it up and you try
to do better the next time you're gonna
be successful what do you think about
that [ __ ] myself ins yeah so you don't
need any of the rest of this crap that I
know you're comforted in because those
are the systems that you've developed
for yourself and so you've come to rely
on those but you can let go of those and
as long as like because at the end of
the day you could care about what other
people think and not focus on becoming a
better juggler and then like you've seen
those streamers right the streamers that
just care about what other people think
and don't focus on it wouldn't in just
say build it a craft or whatever perfect
their craft like yeah it's perfection of
the craft that leads to success in life
its devotion to the thing that you are
doing that leads to success not anything
else anyway so we can talk about that
later but kind of coming back to your
your I mean I think we got a I mean I
think we got to figure out like you know
what's the deal with your dad and pride
like why don't you think your dad is
proud of you and there are good reasons
that you think that because he hasn't
conveyed that to you sufficiently I have
some hypotheses but well I'm mmm glide
and then because if I if he doesn't feel
it and that I want him to convey if he
doesn't feel like it if he doesn't feel
like he if he doesn't she's not proud of
me about something I want to give me the
design that they he is I feel like
that's misleading yeah I completely
agree but then the question is like why
isn't he practice
[Music]
ah I feel like he wants and wanted me to
perform and certain things that I didn't
perform in like like schooling like some
of the sport that he'd want me to do
like when I quit skiing I'm just no
boarding and I stopped competing I mean
I come in other ways like that's kinda
like how he wanted me to have success
even though I even even if I found
success in other ways it's still not in
his like model without he shies it and I
feel like not achieving that it's kind
of like it doesn't make him very proud
okay
things were like it yeah I like
schooling you always want me to do well
in school I can I can I could never care
okay um yeah alright two questions so
the first thing that I want to toss out
to use that I I think I wonder why he
cares so much about you being successful
is he's successful
prideful can you tell me about that um
well you know like
I feel like I like a brother and
yeah I I took mushroom for my dad and he
did like my brother doesn't mean yeah
like like an ego like a crazy over
competitive spirits like isn't there
like that prideful right isn't like as
like self-centered like I took like all
that from my dad how do you feel about
that taking all those things from your
dad
good and bad these are like double-edged
swords almost all of them it's right
answer
these things [ __ ] you over but these
things make you could sometimes also
sometimes I'm okay with like the
downsides these I also get the upside so
I am NOT I'm not that much allowed to be
upset about it by the way where is your
mom in AAPIs my mom's always there for
me in whatever I want but it's not as
[Music]
intense you tell me about your mom
well it's cool she's just not
in tents and things if she wants me to
do something she wants me to be good at
something
um if I fail her if I do her good
like any good or bad isn't intense hmm
and I was really raised with intensity
so is your mom proud of you yeah
so it's interesting right because like
when I asked you is your mom proud you
can say yes and I know you've sort of
said already that your dad is a you're
concerned that he may not be proud cuz
you didn't you didn't become the thing
that he wanted you to be hmm
right that's this we'll talk about that
in a second but I just I think it's
interesting how how complex your answer
is when it comes to your dad and how
simple your answer is when it comes to
your mom and and I wonder if there's a
parallel to be drawn between when you're
playing when you're when you're playing
poorly and people in the audience are
sticking around and they're not leaving
if that's your mom yeah and then I mean
but like I said it's it's I think for me
I think I'm trying like this is kind of
hard because it's very introspective
right yeah I try think of the root
causes my thoughts is that like I said
it's like I think it's really all about
the intensity it's like how how like May
disappointed or mad emmaandemma devil
get if I didn't perform in him well you
want me to do well in and I'm happy he
was and how proud that he was when I
would do well as with my mom even if she
was really proud of me maybe the way she
expressed that what even though she was
extremely excited wasn't as as deep or
as intense but it's kind of hard to
compete because my dad is extremely
intense so my mom was like above average
in terms of intensity my dad was like
way way way above average so she can
compete so what I'm hearing actually is
like I'm gonna toss something out called
contingent love so like it feels to me
like your dad's love was like contingent
like it depended on certain things
whereas your mom sounds like it wasn't
quite as dependent like it so maybe
another way to put it is that your dad's
love was conditional and your mom's love
was unconditional okay that's a bit of a
dark thought but yep it could make sense
yeah yeah I mean what's dark about that
that's a strong word it's all yeah
conditional that's a strong it's a
strong word how did how does it make you
feel to hear it
pants and throw them in the under the
bus and hold them to such labels fare so
let's talk about that for a second
mm-hmm so a lot of times I will use
strong words to amplify what is low in
the person I'm talking to for the record
I think it sounds like your parents are
amazing and wonderful people and I think
they've done it sounds like a good job
raising you I'm not hearing any kind of
abuse or any kind of [ __ ] like that I
think this is just how human beings work
like so I think my parents were
wonderful as well but I still had
hang-ups so can I tell you a story no no
so when I was let me just think about
where to start this story
so when I was finishing up my my
training in in Boston I had done a
really good job so I was like I
distinguish myself in some ways and and
was it a pretty competitive kind of
institution where there are a lot of
bright people and so I had kind of
distinguished myself and then I had a
mentor who had been supporting me for
like six years and started to become
kind of paranoid that like I'd created
this thing and I was like afraid that he
was gonna like take it over and I had
some reason to believe that but like I
kind of thought that this was something
that [ __ ] I don't want to go into the
story more um would like a precision I
kind of felt like I missed a part of the
story sure you were doing well better
than some of the bright people whatever
and then you and then what and then I
got paranoid that one of my mentors was
gonna take credit for my work
oh so what I had done is I created a
program so I'd created something called
a consult service where people with
mental health problems could come and
learn like meditation and use herbs and
and other kinds of like Eastern stuff to
help with their anxiety and their
depression and it was going very very
well because a lot of people are
interested in that and it works really
well and I was afraid that one of my
mentors would basically take over that
program which I had essentially built
from the ground up and it was really
weird because the guy had been nothing
but supportive and so I was doing some
kind of introspective work and actually
learning a particular kind of therapy at
that time and as part of learning that
therapy I had to do my own I would like
was kind of playing the role of the
patient so I was examining my own issues
and so we came up with this issue for me
to work on and what I realized that is
that like this fear that someone who has
been nothing but supportive is gonna
take away what I built actually comes
from my childhood and when I was 13
years old this is back before the
internet was a thing or even younger
there used to be these things called
bulletin board systems BBS's and back
before there was a centralized internet
what happened is you had a phone line
and you would connect to one other
computer through
a phone line and so what I did is a mic
my computer was a server that I hosted
games on and then like there would be
all these kids at school who would dial
into my computer and use my server to
take their turns in the game and then
like 30 kids would play like this
awesome game called barren realms elite
which is still an awesome game so it's
kind of like it's kind of like Clash of
Kings and stuff now it's sort of like
you take your turn every day you spend
resources you build armies you attack
other people and it's like compare like
you're like Travie I know whatever you
know that was that no yes whatever
that's so so but back then like so so
not so we had two phone lines at my home
so I hosted the server and then what I
would do is charge 10 bucks a week for
people to get access to my server and it
became like a super popular thing and I
was making like 300 bucks a week and
like that was a lot of money back in
like 1990 officer and and so you know I
created this thing and then like the
funny thing is like my parents were I'm
lucky I'm the son of two physicians so
my parents like had a big house and like
they basically bought me whatever I
wanted I didn't need any money so I was
like making money and I was making money
but sake and making money and I didn't
have any way to spend it because like if
I wanted something that would just get
it for me or what I mean they would get
it for me if my grades and stuff we're
good and so like one day like like my
dad found this gigantic wad of cash and
he was like what is this and and then I
was like well I stole it and he was like
I'm ballin dude I was like no man I he's
like you didn't steal it
he's like what is this and he's like I
told him I like I was like I started a
business and I'm making a bunch of money
and so then what he did is he took the
money away and he shut down the business
and he said you've got to focus on your
studies like he was actually like proud
of me because he like knew that I was an
entrepreneur and all that kind of crap
so he was like kind of proud but he also
like shut it off right like he did what
what I mean I think is reasonable for a
parent to do which is to say like you
should really be focusing on studying
like you should do what I think you
should do instead of doing what you
think you should do sound familiar with
your dad by the way and I yep yeah and
and then like I realized that in some
ways like
that left a psychological imprint my dad
was like a great person and he loved me
a lot and he was a great guy but if you
just listened to me talk about that
story and how it affected me today
that's where my paranoia was born that
someone who cares about me and it's a
very specific pattern it's as someone
who cares about me like is gonna take
away what I've built okay right it
doesn't make him a bad person it's just
like that's what happens because our
psychology is imperfect and young minds
are impressionable and like they don't
understand the complexity of what our
parents send us yeah okay so we're good
well III have some of that then tell me
I think I can't think of something like
very much in the past much more
something they kind of kind of recent in
you know a time we're like I'm looking
for that validation or I'm looking for
that effect and and I didn't get it and
it kind of like didn't mark me but kind
of did I just swap because I used to
play another game on the stream and then
I had swapped this new game over watch
and I was trimming it and as we good at
the game
but I suppose shimmy it a lot right I'd
put like a lot of hours and I was
enjoying myself a lot sometime
no I care about being good me whatever I
still get out the stream a lot cuz you
know I wanted stream to feel like it's
going forward just like my rank and
might my plane like pedigree or career
order and isn't your heart first because
my guess what my guess was really bad
it's the it's still it's not the best
but I just felt like I want to do that
in English cuz I used to in French and
that's what I want to do and I want to
do good and then I just felt like
there's no way there's no I could I
could never do it who would listen to
some guy who doesn't speak English
properly and I just felt like can't like
the world's against me to have a thing
but I still did it and I would get like
small milestones like oh man look today
we you know we had like two shells or
something and after a while after like a
crazy not like grind if you want or
whatever I got this uh it was like
Christmas there's something and I had a
total like I think it was 212 subs I
remember he was like 220 h1 to 12 or
something and I was like I cannot
believe it I think I've just peaked or
something like I've plateaued like this
is this is it this is like holy [ __ ] I
can't believe that two hundred people
would subscribe my channel did it and
they don't know it's like I'm saying you
know and then I finished you off and I
had to go to this time
was anymore so I had to go to this
Christmas party right so I should I show
up like like 10 minutes later so think
that's you know I was trimming an adult
I rushed there and I'll talk to my dad a
little bit and family and then I took my
dad I'm like yeah you wouldn't believe
it like today like I against all these
other people that are like competing you
know like I had I had this many subs or
whatever and I had this much value to my
channel well that's crazy and then you
kind of just can just look me like the
deciding she kind of said it okay so
when does that make you go back to
school I'm like [ __ ] man
they just kind of crush me you know
nonsense makes a lot of sense yeah
that's crushing
felt like it wouldn't matter like what
the numbers would be at I felt like that
was like a crazy number even though it
didn't matter there's any any direction
in that path any any Heights it wouldn't
matter it'd be irrelevant that's why I
start making those systems like the
violations from other forms because I
play wasn't getting it there you know
yeah I think it goes a little bit I mean
that's rough man I'm I got emotional
hearing that because I think the only
where that was going
but yeah I think so
so here's the thing Felix don't don't
get distracted yeah
what are you you're looking on no no no
it's a guy's stuff I know okay yeah so I
think here's the problem you say that
you needed to create systems of
validation because you weren't getting
validation from your dad I think the
issue here is it's not validation that
you weren't getting from your dad it is
fundamental sense of value okay does
that make sense like there's a
difference doesn't right so like that
was the moment that instead of your
value as a human being here it came down
over here because here you were proud of
yourself and you said look I did
something I'm proud
I accomplished something and then you
were up here and then your dad moved you
down here in that moment that's when so
that's not validation it's it's devalued
and then you need validation to fill
that gap mm-hmm but before that moment I
don't know that you needed any
validation does that make sense yeah so
a validation like the problem with
validation is that like your intrinsic
sense of value and now we kind of go
back to the beginning of the
conversation is like you know impostor
syndrome is because you don't believe
that the person on stage deserves to be
there it's a statement of intrinsic
value and then you need validation
because that's the only way you can get
back up because
believe you you're starting down here
right it's the [ __ ] bike with the
broken chain your whole life it's a bike
with a broken [ __ ] chain yeah that
might is and that's like that's sad bro
is that this is the life yeah because
the thing is you don't have a broken
chain you you are a thousand dollar bike
pawn yeah
but you don't see yourself that yeah I
grew that in that sin
how's that feeling yeah
we're going that I don't know I have
like it isn't really if I don't want to
like oversell myself it doesn't really
take me a lot to go on right like it
does really like to like do well or do
better or improve like there aren't like
a lot of requirements that I need to to
to go in and do [ __ ] it's an expense
yeah I want it yeah I feel more
fulfilled if I get it
but is it sometimes I feel like I'm more
like solid on that without trying to
like you know sound like a high go Andy
or something no no I don't think it's
high ego but let me let me put it I
think it's a problem buddy
yeah I think so why do you think it's a
problem hmm I feel like maybe it makes
me like settle settle for Less or
something I'm like in a certain way in
me and makes me like be okay with like
trash yeah absolutely
so I well I'm gonna put it a different
way okay so you're not feeling a whole
lot right now right no why do you think
it is that other people have difficulty
giving their best because you're saying
that I don't have difficulty giving my
best right mm-hmm well I think other
people like what gets in the way about
people getting their best
uh-huh
I thought about it for a whole minute
I'm no clue okay so do you feel a whole
lot of emotions Felix oh I'd say less
than average yeah so I think part of
what makes other people makes it hard
for other people to give their best is
that they've got like internal [ __ ] that
like bogs them down okay and I don't
know exactly what you mean by settle for
Less but I think part of you giving it
your all lets you forget about a lot of
things that are probably I imagine
hurtful to you and then leave us and I
think what we're running up against
which is interesting because what you're
saying is like some pretty like you know
you'll say the word crushing and then
the only sign that you have emotional
activation is the amount of distraction
which you have in your face and where
your eyes go so the only sign of emotion
that I see in you so you can recognize
that something is crushing you can
recognize these things and you're
learning them but you're not feeling
anything you'll look at your hands
you'll get distracted by discord maybe
it was just escort maybe I'm reading too
much into it I have no idea it's really
basically one time over the last however
long we've been talking that you've like
broken eye contact with your screen in
like in a particular moment you kind of
like looked at your hands for a second
yeah and and I don't know so I think
you've got feelings down there that are
pushed so far down because you've
constructed a system of like being your
best self and competing and like I think
that you know you can say it was
crushing but do you remember how it felt
when you came to your dad and you were
like I got 200 subs I've peaked I've
made it on Twitch
yeah I think I'm Ambria I think I yeah
how did it feel
[Music]
you still like like
like I felt like so ready to to get
something and they're the exact opposite
you know sometimes you can like protect
yourself with like some like
expectations or something yeah right
nothing's pretty much so I don't where
like you know like a fishing rod did
sometimes you know um you know you don't
expect much you know you put it like
close you know whatever but that was
like an i overextended like I'm all in
my pool
y'all know that I know I'm gonna get it
so Felix went why do we protect
ourselves like that why do we expect so
little from the fishing rod where does
that protection come from so like what
are we tanking what I mean so you're
saying you said something about you know
having low expectations and how low
expectations are protective yeah okay so
like you play over much right so like
you know those low expectations are like
Reinhart and his shield and like what's
behind Reinhart like what are we what
are we tanking there
if those a flow X if you didn't set
artificially low expectations for
yourself what would happen more intense
disappointment when you don't get it
absolutely and even then more intense
disappointment is a really cerebral way
of saying it hurts okay you're
protecting yourself from hurt yeah I
don't really use those words real often
you don't use those words for you
bad I know yeah so you're hyper
analytical and you're LexA thymic what
Alexa 5ik means is that you're unaware
of what your internal emotional state is
and I don't think you like you can use
words like crushing you can use physical
words right you can use words that are
like crushing is like a physical thing
mm-hmm
it has a representation in the real
world and men do this often it's like
you know you can talk like you don't
talk about pride or satisfaction you
talk about like rolling news Yeah right
that's an emotion rolling newbs is like
it's an emotion but you just don't have
the language and everyone understands
what we mean because our whole job
raishin is like emotionally sunk because
we play video games and stuff and like
we don't spend time like inside
ourselves it really is and and I think
that buddy like so you know I'm gonna
offer a couple of thoughts because I
don't really know exactly what where to
explore from here and I kind of want to
say so I've also noticed something that
when we explore too far we lose some of
the things that we learned at the
beginning yeah there's good data to that
so I'm gonna try to leave you with a
couple of thoughts the first thing is I
think you've really got to think long
and hard about you know how you feel
about your dad not being proud of you
mm-hmm and cuz I just don't think that
you deserve a life where like your value
is down here when it's really appear cuz
you are a thousand dollar bike you're
not and there's a certain amount of like
you know underdog pride with with being
down here and still achieving up here
like I can sympathize with that there's
a some pride in that but I just don't I
just don't think that like when it comes
to the self-sabotage and impostor
syndrome and all this kind of [ __ ] you
know because people people do genuinely
care about you I mean I'm making
assumptions here but I'm pretty sure
because that's what I've seen from
twitch at everyone talks about twitch I
like that they're toxic but I think that
there's like a lot of genuine caring and
respect does yeah and and I think I
think it's I mean it's it's gotta like
it's got to be about your dad and by
about what I mean is like I think you've
got a you know maybe at some point first
of all figure out how you feel and then
then engage your dad I don't know if you
guys have ever talked about like what
success means to him and why he cares so
much so the last thing that I want to
leave you with is that all this [ __ ]
about your dad's expectations on you are
probably coming from his own sense of
not doing good enough because that's
what parents do okay Beckham I could see
that right so if he's hyper competitive
and egotistical and he has a son who is
far more successful than he'll ever be
which I don't know if that's true or not
I don't know how
successfully is and I really know how
successful you are like I'm know right
but if that thought is in his head that
could be difficult for him to sit with
but that's not that's not something that
should lower your value that's something
that he needs to deal with okay why does
he need his son to be number one and in
yeah in in in a realm where that
couldn't change then what is it not okay
to have systems where you where you get
that from or other things if you let's
say if that all I said was the truth and
he couldn't change then what so you're
absolutely right so the systems are
there for a damn good reason right so
like like what I'm yeah so then what
then I think you guys accept you breve
and you move past it and what that means
is like you know if I'm juggling and I
drop a ball then what Felix I'm sure
absolutely right so it like like you you
don't let that failure stop so if your
dad like your dad needs to figure out
like why he wants his son to be so
successful like does he derived personal
pride and ego from your successes
cuz that happens a lot with parents and
then the second thing is why can't he
accept your success for what it is why
does it have to look like his success
okay that's that's it then you have it
then I have what I feel like that
question is is the right one yeah or the
most the most fun was that when I had
out of all exactly and that comes from a
conversation with him and the cool thing
is that once you can have that
conversation with him and you can get
the answer that question then you're no
longer down here because what put you
down here is like his impression of
what's valued mm-hmm then you're back up
here and then you're you know you're a
thousand dollar bike riding a thousand
dollar bike like that's what you are
you're not like a broken chain because
if we look at your actual performance
we see the performance of a thousand
dollar bike not the performance of a
broken chain and that you've
demonstrated time and time and time
again by schooling noobs and trampoline
schooling noobs and skiing schooling
noobs right and left and center right
you're competing with like your dad
sends you in to compete with kids with
multi-thousand dollar bikes and you've
got a broken chain you're [ __ ]
winning a race and you have to stop and
pull over and reattach me yeah yeah and
in those moments I felt like I was upset
that they wouldn't get when do the
results but I was very much like self
self rewarded and I had a good mint
mental loop cuz yeah it sucks I don't
get on the podium but at the same time I
was like dude if I had a bike as good as
theirs I know like it's not that doesn't
come from like over at all you my value
like I would have [ __ ] this guy over I
ought to roll them right and and that
that thought was enough yeah I'm with
you I think ok right so but but the
problem here is that you don't think
that way about yourself now right you
think the opposite mmm probably not yeah
exactly
reisen's so like I think and then we
kind of ask a little bit about won't I
become not successful no absolutely not
because that is actually when you're
your truest self it's when you don't
derive value from an external thing do
you see that in that moment you're not
deriving value from being on stage
you're deriving value from a true sense
of what you're putting in and what
you're capable of
hmm then you don't care about the
audience and can you be successful
absolutely
tarts questions known as does all this
Oh mittens
is it overall unhealthy in the
immigrants into things like lifestyle to
to let's say not care about about what
your parents think we're like build
yourself in an environment where you get
like a combined other things that make
up for that let me make up for the mega
for their value or their so I think how
healthiest thing is done it's not to not
care it's to recognize what part of my
parents value of me is fair and what
part is unfair okay let me as lessons
yeah because they're evaluation of you
is not perfect yeah I think that's a
problem where you're growing up you
can't really can't really tell tens of
your parents they're above you so
they're they know [ __ ] but sometimes
they do things just like we did like I
dunno like that we're human right that
are that are that are wrong but I still
see it as right because I don't know any
better so like they play their cards
perfectly and that's how they really
feel
and I mean but maybe that's how they
feel about themselves or some external
other source right and then actually
feel I feel like you kind of build like
just unhealthy conclusions absolutely
right so I think the general strategy
like so when I say you have to see
what's fair and unfair like you said do
you think that they're perfect when
you're a child and they're certainly not
perfect and we don't blame them for that
right because they also like they're not
perfect so how can you expect perfection
from them so I think the strategy Felix
is damage control not perfection it's
not being perfect it's in recognizing
like so the way for it is to have
conversations with them well then you
can through conversation with them like
recognize okay what is my dad saying
that's fair and what is he saying that's
unfair and then once you recognize that
it's unfair you let it go fine let's go
it's like that shit's on him like if
he's not happy with me having a broken
chain bike and not winning first place
like that's an unreasonable expectation
and if he doesn't want to be proud of me
for that then so be it I'm gonna make my
case about why he shouldn't be proud of
me right I need to explain to him and
and and then that gives him the
opportunity to also grow because you're
not the only one that needs to do
growing in this relationship
and it's kind of like a continual
process in the same way that you like
wake up the next day and you try to be
better that's what both of you guys need
to do for your relationship and then
you'll end up hopefully both being like
happy and accepting and loving each
other and you know he'll be proud of you
and you'll know that he's genuinely
proud of you and he can accept that you
aren't him right you're not his perfect
dream of himself you're you and you have
your own [ __ ] that you care about your
own values and there are parts of you
that there are parts of him that live
within you but there are also parts of
your mom there are parts of you that are
a little bit more chill there are parts
of you that say that I'm gonna stop
skiing and like snowboard because it's
fun and I'm still gonna do a really good
job but it's gonna be less intense
mm-hmm okay in that he needs to judge
you for who you are not who he wants you
to be and even in that you may fall
short in some ways he may say okay Felix
I agree with you that you know you've
been successful and I'm proud of you but
I still think X Y Z yeah and then for
you to say okay dad that's fair that
isn't fair and then you guys come to an
accord and that's a healthy relationship
yeah
yeah I I think I'm uh I think I'm
getting them here I mean I understand
like the like the full scope of the full
scope of things it's almost like at the
same time it's kind of like most people
that do good on Twitter kind of like
like degenerate or I mean I mean not
most of us and I will put throws on the
same boat it's kinda like almost kind of
like being like a failure or something
yeah being like a bomber right being
such a bomb that is like one of the like
things that make you makes you good on
Twitter something that's also was
something that that doesn't sit well
your your parents so I think it's gonna
weird to be kinda like rewarded for such
like that am I getting that is an i
sense it makes perfect sense and I think
there's a there's a difference in value
between the boomer generation in our
generation mm-hmm there's like a
conversation that needs to be had like
basically I mean I have this
conversation with my parents too about
like where value comes from right so she
has certain ideas about like what I
should be and and we just have to have a
conversation about like you know some of
the ways that I raise my kids and and
things like that and and so she's like
oh that's not the right way to do it
right your dad's issue is that you're
not successful in the right place yeah
that's it and and like this is just like
they don't get to determine what's right
right we have our own perspective and we
don't get to determine what's right
either
like what's right comes like from a
conversation and the cord between the
two of us and I mean I think you know I
know I wish I'm gonna have to think a
little bit Felix because I think just a
couple of closing thoughts so I think
there are a couple things you can work
on one is you know to think about how to
have a conversation with your dad
because I think that actually needs to
happen at some point and and the second
though is to really figure out like I do
think you're Alexa thymic which means
you don't really you're not really in
touch with your emotions and and I don't
know if you I mean sometimes like people
who are not really in touch with their
emotions they come out and
he's like oftentimes frustration or
anger or toxicity and so I think a big
part of toxicity on the internet and on
twitch comes from like people having
these kinds of issues or like your dad
is fundamentally not proud of you and
like that's hard to live with like every
single day right and that hurts and then
like what happens when we get hurt like
if I slap you across the face what are
you gonna do yeah I'll G and then what
and then afterward till it heals sure
but you're not gonna hit back um yeah
maybe maybe not okay I'm sorry I I think
I'm not giving you the the correct the
credit
I should no no but but that's that's
perfectly fine right so it's not like
once again it's not me it's not for me
to know what the correct answer is when
you give me an answer that I'm not
expecting what your spot on that's not
that wasn't what I expected I don't try
to convince you that I'm right I stop
and put myself in your shoes and then
the truth is gonna be somewhere in the
middle okay so let me put it a better
analogy that will give me the answer
that I want right when someone like when
you're playing a game of overwatch and
like you know they take the point or
whatever and then you're like yeah I'm
gonna [ __ ] him right yeah you hit back
yeah and and so when we're hurt what we
respond with his anger okay and I was
reading I mean so I sort of realized
this one day when I was reading one of
the manifestos or one of these school
shooters and at the bottom of all of
that man yeah go ahead okay [ __ ] effect
a bruni story no more I feel like over
time I have this new sort of system or
loop that I do where when things like
that happen or something or somebody
punches right I I punch but not by using
like my face or something is that make
sense sure I punch another way that's
more like subtle or like calculate or
something right
where something like
[ __ ] me over I'm not gonna I'm not
gonna [ __ ] them over I'm gonna visit if
you're gonna dismantle them yeah but you
lose yeah you're gay
yeah I'm with you we could get into that
too that's that's a cold anger it's not
a haunting okay right there's a but the
anger is still there my friend mm-hmm
right it's just it's just not you're not
gonna hit back you're gonna say ow and
then you're gonna figure out how to
dismantle me oh okay that that's
interesting then yeah yeah I like that
thought yeah that's still anger I like
that
yep because sometimes I'll like I guess
falsely tell myself I'll be like man
like that you know that's you're not
doing it out of anger you know like I'm
just doing that because it's it's the
right thing or like I'm myself like a
self-righteous that I have angle but
it's still it's still trash you know no
it may not be trash okay that's a whole
different issue right so so what your
actions may be just but your actions
being just and and whether they're
whether there's anger there or separate
or separate questions mm-hmm all right
cuz if I smack you across the face like
you hurting me in some way could be just
but I think it doesn't surprise me that
you don't feel anger but it's a cold
fury because I think the bigger thing is
like so in anyway so I think they're
like two general directions Felix that
you need to go the three actually so one
you're already doing and really good at
and that's to learn and analyze your
systems which I think you've done a
phenomenal job I don't think we could
have gotten this far in the conversation
unless you had a pretty good attention
to the systems that you develop over
time even if they don't make perfect
sense to you you know what they are at
least which is awesome so continue
learning because there may be sudden T's
which are not so I can think is I think
at some point you've got to settle to
[ __ ] with your dad and that could be
through a conversation with him it could
be through therapy it could be through
any number of things but this is this
thing is not at peace right like there's
something about like you still accept
his view on some level and that needs to
be dealt like
awareness huh the third thing is that I
think you need to better understand what
your emotions are and what you're
feeling because I think you've got all
kinds of stuff when you talk about these
thoughts I think the fuel for those
kinds of thought loops and negative
thought patterns comes from because you
call them thought right all you
experiences the thoughts but like where
is the fuel for that coming from it's
probably coming from sopressa music yeah
and so the third kind of dimension for
your growth is to like you know to put
it bluntly get in touch with your
feelings and I don't know if you're like
in a romantic relationship or what the
deal is there but like when it comes to
those like you know getting this [ __ ]
and order is like really important to
having like a healthy romantic
relationship because unless you know
like when she he or she does something
that upsets you like if you don't feel
that upset and can't vocalize that to
her you're just gonna dismantle her or
him depending on what your sexual
preferences okay you know and and so we
can talk about relationships or whatever
at a different point but does that make
sense
like you got to know like what's going
on yeah Andres husband's I understand
her thoughts or questions before we wrap
up no I think I understand um yeah these
things many lessons you take aways from
today you mind if I ask why what time is
it
I know I know do you wanna keep talking
cause like we been out
oh oh I I didn't have time I lost look
at time
I enjoyed that the nerves really good um
not really
I mean I have like it's almost like
every topic has like a bunch of branches
I was like I could go with that okay
what we're gonna instead and and you
know I I feel complete but there's no
sense like there's still a lot left to
talk about
yeah it's okay though yeah I I was
wondering if you could try to summarize
cuz like you know people are watching
like what do you think what do you think
are some highlights like what do you
think are some of the key points what
are the not the branches but like you
know the big stems that then could be
explored the big
that can be explored yeah what are the
things that you took away from the
conversation if anything oh okay
I think sometimes you say something
right like a statement and it kind of
simplifies my viewpoint on it like all
like overcomplicate something or I'll
see like in a weird way
and then you'll say like oh like if I
really resent it that's still anger
right it's such a simple answer but it's
okay it's just like a simple thoughts
but it resonates a lot and there's a
couple things that you did it leeches
like that you said like that like Oh
like really when he said oh that's pain
but you say thought you said you say in
another way or something mm-hmm like and
these things are easy to easy to take
home easy to okay because yeah I like a
lot it's it simplifies it it makes it
way more approachable mentally like it's
not oh it's not all broken no or it's
not like a so it's that complicates like
a crazy process it's as simple as you
know that's just a feeling or just that
yeah okay thanks for from yeah John no
go ahead look I was doing nothing I'm
just gonna say so sometimes I teach
people meditation are you interested in
that um I'm not really good at it where
I
maybe you heard about this before since
you're in that sort of feel but um
biofeedback and huh no no feedback
uh-huh
ever heard about that yep okay and uh I
had to learn it like breathe and and and
sort of method is the can't they kind of
were like hand in hand right yeah like
breathing properly like uh was it called
again dude
when you breathe through like the bottom
of the lungs or something abdominal
breathing yeah that okay so uh you're
you're not good at it yeah I'm not good
at getting a hold of my thoughts like if
I'm okay okay nobody's ready this is a
little different I don't know what is
your time is this gonna take too long no
go for a media are you like on a set
schedule is like very tight
let me check real quick sure and don't
know if it is like it I'm not gonna get
mad it's like no no I appreciate your
consideration man sure it's very kind of
you nope we're good okay so
I remember it's a Tetris syndrome or
whatever Tetris syndrome
ya know where you do an action for so
long and so much time in one day or a
couple days that even when you're not
doing it it's still happening in your
head okay like like I've been playing a
lot of chess on an off stream and the
entire time we talk today like it's like
the entire time I had I had pieces I
could visibly see like almost in my
vision and if they kept just kept moving
the whole time and I kept like
practicing like certain moves or
something does that make sense yeah it's
it's like it's so vivid that it's like
um it's always there right and I do that
with like streaming and playing games so
we're even when I'm not doing them it's
like always happening like I'm I keep
playing my head but it's it's always
there so whenever I try to like meditate
or calm down it it's really hard to not
think about anything or think about
something and just feel like let things
flow you know I mean and without being
completely disrupted by my head just
playing that game again or or doing that
action that I did all day it's just so
overwhelming right so it's all yeah okay
thanks for sharing that very that's
gonna hug yeah it's kinda hard to get a
hold of my thoughts whenever I try to
like calm and chill like it gets under
control really bats I think the problem
is not that you need to get ahold of
your thoughts I think you need to let
him go
okay that's why you're not good at
meditating because meditating is not
about holding on to your thoughts it's
about letting him go it's like you're
moving in the opposite direction
uh-huh alright it's sort of like you
know so Felix how do you go to sleep I
usually just
ask myself I can't and I haven't really
actually gonna sleep and I don't know
the longest time yeah just uh yeah right
so so so sleep is not something that you
can do it's something that you have to
like it like it that's that happen to
you
all right so sleep is not about you
don't go to sleep you let sleep take you
and what you have to do to let sleep
take you is to be very very exhausted
otherwise sleep won't come and take you
does that make sense you don't do it it
it does you like it's the other way
around yeah and so I think you
absolutely need to meditate but you need
to meditate in the opposite direction
from what you're trying to do and I just
need a second to think about how to do
that I have a particular technique that
I think would work very well for you
it's just we can't do it on streem is
the problem okay what is it I'm just a
so so what I tell people to do is like
so I you know I used to teach this stuff
in a hospital like in my office and so
what I would do is take people down to
the cafeteria of the hospital and I tell
them to close their eyes and listen to
as many sounds that they hear as quickly
as they can for a short amount of time
as possible so just listen to like a
glass clinking over here someone's on
their phone someone's walking by someone
spilled something there's a baby crying
someone you know banged silverware
together there's a cash register that
ding but there's another cellphone
someone's coming down the stairs there's
an elevator that beeped you know there's
someone's something's moving over here
there's a dog barking and just to listen
to as many sounds as you can as quickly
as you can ok if you want to meditate
what you need to do is not slow your
mind down you need to speed it up ok so
there's a there's a good kind of saying
in meditation which is how do you get a
monkey to sit still which is like hard
to translate into the West because we
don't have monkeys and and you know if
you want a monkey to sit still what you
have to do is exhaust it right you can't
like force a monkey you can't hold it in
place it's just gonna go crazier and
crazier and crazier and so what we need
to do for you to meditate is for
meditation to take you you need to
exhaust your mind and
I almost say like let me just think
I mean do you want to try something or
you're okay just and I'm not trying to
pressure you I just want to know where
you are
so anything element okay well good
whatever so what does that do when you
think about a lot of sounds what does
that do I'm gonna show you hope just
give me a second I think showing you is
gonna be way easier than telling you I
just have to think about how much to
engage your mind
okay so I want you to sit up straight
[Music]
think let me think let me think we don't
want to overdo it that's okay maybe he
will be easier so I wonder if doing
things with your body is gonna be easier
are you stay yeah how tall you're tall
yeah
okay yeah sure we can do something
standing so okay let's just stop
extending all right jack
all right so it's gonna be really simple
well let's just see what happens okay
okay sounds good
we're gonna so that I was asking you to
sit up straight but you're standing now
so let's run with it it means just sit
sit with your back straight that's okay
don't worry about it
no no no we're gonna run with it I think
this is great okay I'm gonna stand up
so I can it's not a big deal okay so
this is what I want you to do so stand
up straight yeah feet together arms by
your side and then I want you to as you
inhale I want you to raise your arms and
then the
I don't know like with my nose your eyes
it's fine right right and then exhale
and as you exhale I want you to bring
your arms down to where when you fully
exhale your arms should be at the bottom
so you want to match the involution with
the match the movement of your arms with
your breast
okay okay so yeah breathe in
and then out okay way too fast
so death yeah so I want you to look at
the pacing of my arms and follow your
breath long
now is your breath matching your arms or
no no so you've got a focus on yeah yeah
so your arms should not be moving your
arms should only be moving while you are
breathing in or out okay and I'm gonna
spoil when I was about this one I was
already done yeah then you need to slow
down your breath
slowing down your breath that's perfect
huh
that was perfect that was perfect okay
so close your eyes and and do five up on
your okay Hebrew slow
good again
good keep going now keep your arm
movements even so you can't speed up or
slow down it has to be even with your
breath the entire time
again
duh keep going and now I want you to
tell me as you're keeping track of your
breath and your arms I want you to tell
me about which chest moves you see in
your mind
do you see chess moves in your mind no
Vincent for a while think about them and
continue doing the practice from I'll
call the chess game keep your breath
even keep your arms even think about
chess
do you hear one of those in breath slow
keep it even and think about chess at
the same time very fast slow down slow
breath slow slow slow breath keeping
arms even in slow yeah good what's
happening I'm feeling good
why I'm doing what are the other
robotically
so let your full attention return to the
breath arms up slow even and then down
smooth
notice that your arms may be getting
tired and Soviet we're gonna do three
more it's slowly smoothly infinitely as
you can now
again
and out last one slow smooth and even
and out
later eyes remain closed
spread your feet apart a little bit and
just sit in your mind
notice this natural breath that your
breath is naturally waste lower
focus on the sensation in your arms and
let your attention balance between your
breath and your arms whichever one feels
bad
and let it sit with one for a while and
when it's ready to move let it move
move to something else if thoughts come
you can notice those thoughts that the
chess pieces come back let them come
back and then focus on the sensation in
your arms focus on the slowing your
breath will continue for about 30 cents
when you're ready go ahead and sit back
down open your eyes and tell me how you
feel that's good what what does that
mean um something weird happened it was
kind of like that's what we're here for
that means you did it right okay I just
since I was looking for thoughts when I
moved away from trying to look for a
feeling in my arms or or my chest
whatever I feel like a random random
like scenes would like pop my head and I
was just kind of like go along because I
knew that it was part of the process and
I would move back to my arms again and
then I would think Oh what I think about
last time and then something would pop
up who cares what I thought nothing
about this now
so some another scenery in my head or
another object or things going on and
then back my arms and then I kind of let
go I don't know I find I kind of felt
that yeah okay I just give I can i I
kind of give importance to those things
I'm thinking about or I'm looking for
whanau and not like some other [ __ ] good
so that's focusing of attention now let
me ask you what was your mind doing
while we were doing the breathing and
moving of the arms that was odd
why I'm like this but I always like
process images all the time I have like
visuals in my head like I thought about
that a lot today I think didn't I tell
about something I told you what I see
like I always thought like a drawing
almost or like something that displays
whatever whoever is going on and
whenever I do doing my arms up I
couldn't something about a robot should
not try to synchronize both right and I
can see like I could see like notches
right like 1 2 3 or almost like a clock
right and that's what I'm thinking about
the whole time I was like and I was but
what about the breathing though okay but
what are the notches actually I like
sink a boat and because I was having
those thoughts
I couldn't sink them beautiful okay so
let me explain something to you so
everyone thinks that meditation is about
stillness of the mind right so if we
think about it like you're you're saying
that anytime I try to steal my mind it
doesn't still I have all kinds of
thoughts and all kind of [ __ ] is
happening right okay good is this pen
still there's no yeah right so this is
hard for you to do with me okay you're
not gonna understand this inside
hopefully this will make sense for you
to meditate you can never do this you
can't just have something be still for
you to meditate you need to do this
we'll be able to do either okay what's
the difference between this and the
other thing or both of these pens still
they're both still but this one requires
like a effort to keep it still if you
like absolutely this is what you need
well not this this your mind is gonna
get [ __ ] bored and it's gonna think
about a thousand different things
okay people who try to teach you how to
meditate they taught you this you're
never going to be successful meditating
like that this is what you need okay and
then what you need to do is do it while
standing on one leg so your meditation
your stillness of the mind because the
pen is still in both ways people think
that meditation is stillness that comes
through no effort for you Felix it must
come through maximal effort yeah and if
you can fully engage your mind it's not
about stopping your mind it's about
pushing it to it's very limits and so I
think like that's that was the goal and
I think you were even doing it because
you were bouncing between focusing on
the breath and focusing on the robot you
see that huh and then even at the end I
told you bounce between the breath in
the sensation in your arms you must
bounce and you're like what does that
mean it's exactly what you were doing
before that's what I was telling you to
do bounce between the two your
meditation or your stillness is gonna
come through rhythm and balance not
through like sitting still it's still
still low right there's no movement it's
just a completely different thing it's
gonna come through balance and so you
need to bounce back and forth as much as
you can and and the the the cafeteria
exercise which we can't do now because
of Kovan that too is about bouncing
between as many things as you can as
quickly as you can and in between all
that you'll find stillness okay so okay
things like too fast cuz I have liked it
there isn't nope if it's too if there's
no such thing as too fast the only thing
that there is is not fast enough okay so
you need to push your mind until you are
exhausted okay because I remember
reeling back one time where I was like
um I was thinking about stuff right when
we're doing it and I was like wait if
that that's like unreasonable I'm going
too fast now I for some reason my mind
was just going faster and I was like
okay chill then you whatever you were
thinking about anybody have a little
more and then we'll go through the
breath so I have to know that then well
so what what we do want you to do is
return two things it's not about speed
it's about not returning okay right so
return to breath return to the sensation
let your mind go somewhere and bring it
back meditation for you should be about
anchor and balance not about stillness
okay okay yeah and in terms of a
technique you can try to do this
technique you can also try let me just
think I would literally say what you
should do is like you should do like
more martial arts oriented meditation I
think that'll work better for you so I'd
say like learn how to balance a pen or
learn and then once you get good at this
then do it on one foot so you should you
should be stable I'm gonna teach you
something
I forget what what pose this is and once
again IV I got a okay that's right no oh
one second hold on hold on you can sit
here that's fine you can sit I just
daddy needs to demonstrate something
okay you can sit I'm no problem if you
sit continue sitting no problem okay
hold on okay so I want you to do I don't
know if this is the tree pose right so I
want to do this do do yoga I don't do
yoga so tree pose this yeah oh well
voltic put your art put your hands into
must stay above your head and hold it
close your lenses like like this I'm
sorry what what like this no no yeah so
put the leg in and then with your upper
arms do this
yep pull it good
so close your eyes what's your mind
doing
I'm loving like visual stimuli no no if
you're not getting visual stimuli that's
what we want what about this open your
eyes it'll get easier
okay okay so now is your mind wandering
are you thinking about things yeah
okay close your eyes what's happening to
the thoughts there you go that's about
it that's what you need to do open open
see the thoughts come right back go come
back in a second give him a second
they'll come back thoughts come back
yeah well so make him go away
close them try to hang on to them try to
hang on to the thoughts as long as you
can good bouncing back and forth balance
open your eyes
do this yeah good so that's still
focusing on the sensation is not the
same old ship hold on javi okay one
second oh I gotta go up because the this
kids going crazy if you don't get or you
have questions DME afterward okay can I
just take you back for a second okay so
let's give xqc some love thanks a lot
man it was a pleasure meeting you bro
Sherman thanks
um yeah of course as well and let me
know if you want to follow up at some
point or you have additional questions
of course Sherman okay well thanks let
me do this ever select yeah thank you
for coming on bro
the have a good it okay twitch at I
shall be right back okay I have to just
go deposit this one and then we'll close
up just give me a second